You know, let's talk about something. I think you guys can both agree on. Cause,
uh, I am baffled by this carnivore diet. Yes. And baffled. Yes.
I'm baffled by how many people are, are clinging to it as a panacea.
I'm baffled by whether or not it's a physiological effect or whether
there's a placebo effect going on. I have a theory please.
Yeah. So my theory is that it mimics some of the benefits of fasting,
um,
but allows people to persist for longer because it's providing some nutrition,
you know, most, if you look in the scientific literature,
fasting is like the cure all for everything. I agree with you. I mean,
like you can look at any condition and fasting is the cure. We're time water.
Fasting. So you can do it for 2, 3, 4.
Weeks. Right? The problem is try that for a year <laugh> you know,
and that will be the cure for life in that case. <laugh> wow. Um.
The longest example is a year of water fasting.
So most people are not guy that lost. It.
Was 300.
He, he was extremely obese. You know, he was a.
Lot of G stores living.
Living off of his fat stores. Right. But the.
Fascinating thing about that was that he actually is skinran too right. Which.
Is really no. Yeah. Which doesn't usually happen with weight loss. Yeah.
So this is just a theory. I have nothing to, you know,
I don't have any evidence,
but when meat is absorbed very high up in the digestive tract.
And so when you only eat meat, it's a low residue diet,
and there's nothing left over to irritate or inflame the gut.
My theory is a lot of people who are benefiting from this have a really
disrupted gut microbiome alesioph fsano has argued that leaky gut is kind of
a pre-condition for auto immunity. And this,
the carnivore diet is essentially like a gut rest or a fast.
And so I don't, you know, the out that people are benefiting from it.
The question is what is the long term implication? Well, there.
Is no, I mean, there's a few people that have been doing it.
There's some anecdotal evidence we've been doing it for a few.
Decades. Well, you know, it's pretty cool. I'm actually going on my homeboy,
Sean bakerker's podcast in a few weeks. We, we guys are homeboys.
We start Sean and I started as enemies. We love other Sean. I love you, brother.
We're gonna have an honest discussion as much as you can to say,
why is michaelkayla Peterson feeling good? And you gotta love that.
And honor that if she had done water, fasting,
transitioning to an ultra cleanan diet, would she have done as well? Who knows,
but to look at Sean Baker's labs and say pre-diabetic low testosterone
high B N I'm concerned. Although he just published his Corona artery,
calcium scan of zero. And I honor that he's got little kids.
I don't want the guy to drop dead, but you know,
there's it's way preliminary for the bandwagon. The problem with.
The testosterone thing though,
is he said that he had been deadlifting the day before. And uh,
the day before he took his test, could that have sign significantly?
Do he increase his testosterone? Well, he.
Said he repeated it a few times and it stayed low. But if your serumm total,
yeah, it raised quite a bit. It could have didn raise.
I think it raised by a hundred percent. Nah, it was it's. It was like 237.
I can't memorize his last, but there's it's its low though.
There's plenty of data. If your serumm total testosterone is less than 250,
it's an adverse mortality predictor. And you know, he wants to be alive.
He doesn't need to do it.
Kayeb Peterson and Jordan might need to do it until they find a better path.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> Sean's, you know, uh, adopted it. So there's, you know,
the biggest puzzle is let quickly quickly one of the things that plant-based
eaters and uh,
P people that fill three quarters of their plate with food and vegetables get
way more than everybody.
Else's lots of vitamin C and vitamin C builds healthy walls and builds healthy
immune systems. You love vitamin C. I love vitamin C. I love it from foods.
I don't mind it as a supplement. I don't mind it.
Intravenous vitamin C is line is polling. There's so many, uh, uh,
benefits to the body. Where are these people?
When every art says the meat has no vitamin C, are they eating raw meat?
Which might have vitamin C, are they eating organ meat?
Which might have some vitamins. Let me.
Let me stop you there because I'll tell you what the explanation's been to me.
Yeah.
The explanation to me has been that there is a decrease in absorption of vitamin
C when you're consuming vitamin C with all these other things,
chrisaerous vegetables, right? Ofbohydrate rates all these different things.
If there's some sort of a, there's an adverse effect, is that, is that a fact?
Well.
The per if you take a thousand milligrams of vitamin C, you absorb a lot of it.
You take 10,000 milligrams on percentage. You won't absorb as much,
but you'll still get more than a thousand milligrams.
But there's also this theory that since they're eating basically and no added
glucose, yet that there's some kind of competition in us. Yes.
Between glucose and C. So even if they get a, a touch of sea,
they're absorbing it hyper, efficiently, nobody knows they haven't developed.
Then they're getting glucose from glucose Genesis.
Uh, internally. Right. Cuz they're adding, you know,
certainly it's a low carb diet. No doubt. About's getting a car, a little,
a little alpha gal in there. Maybe that's 's about feel like her.
I think, I mean the point is we just don't know. We don't know. And, and I,
it seems so riskym, I mean, as a, as a practitioner, myself,
and as someone who's dealt with chronic illness who wasn't able to find help
anywhere else. I mean, I,
I do not be grudgge people for sticking with something that,
that works when they've tried everything and nothing is worked and they do this
and feel good. I mean, who can blame them? It's it's really well. I've gone.
To dinner with Jordan, Jordan Peterson,
and he's eating these big giant steaks and he looks great. Well, you know,
he's lighter than he is been since he was 25. That's true. And.
I, and I'm, I'm 100% empathetic with that,
cuz I've been through something like that myself. But to,
to then take that and say that we're certain that it's safe is a big leap.
Yeah. And really thing is, you know,
my field atherosclcrosis takes years to develop and I wish him well,
he's contributing amazing things in the world,
but unless he's tracking carotid and coronary and doing it year after year after
year, you know, it's an experiment. You might not wanna run. You find.
But on did run those testss baseline. Resultsbaseline.
Baseline. Yeah. Some, some nutrient deficiencies also take many years to run.
So that's another thing.
To consider Sean. There's another guy that I follow online. I'm sorry.
I forget the gentleman's name, but he advocates organ meat.
And he's saying that organ meat,
if you're just eating steak that you've got an issue.
But if you take in account liver and heart kidneys,
that you are gonna get all these essential nutrients.
From that you're, you're still not getting vitamin C that I'm aware of. Okay.
In any significant amount you're not getting uh crottenoids and flaoids and so
how these people.
Not gettingenols.
Yeah, we dunno. We dunno. Yeah. So.
Yeah, we don't know is a good summation of, of,
is it possible that there's some mechanism that's going on on the absolutely.
Sean.
Posted a picture. He was eating steak and cheese.
So it's apparently not an all meat diet and I'm not slamming him.
I really wish him well and he can do what he wants. I don't know.
He's a very nice guy. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I mean, I'm not slamming, but he's.
Not. So the nose, nose,
tail is important though because the organ meats and then likeara fatier cuts of
meat have glycine and other neutral means that are really important if you're
only eating lean meat. I think, yeah. I would be very concerned about that.
Children did not try this at home.
Is someone tried to get me, they were saying,
you should try a carnivore diet for 90 days. And I said, well,
the real problem with that would be I eat game and that's extremely low,
very lean. Yeah. It's not smart. And I like veget, Ables. I like vegetables.
I like to eat them. I mean, I eat,
I eat vegetables with essentially every single meal. Yeah. That's very smart.
As I told you, it's an antidote. If nothing else. I mean, it's.
Awesome.
But I do think that it's entirely possible that maybe it's people that have this
disruptedm gut microbiome, but that some people might be alert.
Like one of the things that Michaela Peterson brought up when she,
she was on the podcast, that it,
it might very well be that she's allergic to almost everything. Right.
She has some sort of an all allergic reaction. You,
I think you both think that that could be because of a up gut. My no.
Doubt. Doubt. Absolutely. Absolutely. She just hasn't had evaluated. She,
she started to laugh when I talked to my nauropath,
that's what she should have kept on doing and gotten her gut analyze and gotten
her gut healed. I mean, maybe that would've helped her, you know.
Conject the problem with those nauropaths it's like good psychics.
Can I try to find one? I'll tell you.
It's also not look, not all problems are solvable. Yeah. Right. That's we,
that's a really hard thing to accept. Yeah. Um,
but let's say you get in a car accident and your spine is crushed, you know,
know most in short of a miracle, you know,
that's not that person's not gonna re fully regain their 100% of their,
uh, you know, musculoskeletal capabilities. Right. Right.
But we don't have that same understanding with other conditions that health
conditions let's say, I go, you know, to, uh,
Indonesia and I get at 10 parasites and you know, like, and,
and then I have to take tons of antibiotics to deal with that is my gut ever
gonna return to 100% of the function that it,
that it had before that even with all the right things, maybe not.
And so I'm not saying that they should, the people should give up hope. And I'm,
I'm saying that like there, we,
we have to separate between this is helping me and it's making me feel great and
nothing else worked. Right.
And we know with a hundred percent certainty that this is safe for the long
term. Right. Those are two very different questions. And again,
I'm totally empathetic to that, you know?
And I would probably do the same thing, especi their situally.
Yourself that has gone through this process of being extremely.
Unhealthy. Yeah. And, and I might even say, Hey, Hey, you know,
if I maybe I'll die five years earlier, but I'll enjoy the re you know,
those years of my life, I won't be in pain and discomfort the entire time.
Then sign me up. Or I might, I might say to myself, well, wait,
it can't be that good for me to be inflamed all the time. And like, right.
You know, it, it, that can't be good for me. So maybe even though the,
the all meat diet might have some downsides, it,
it actually might be reducing inflammation. And,
and therefore that will cancel out. We just don't know. But what about an.
All meat diet? The thing that gets me is there's no vitamin supplementation.
Am I? What about an all meat diet with a good supplementation of multivitamins?
They a pretty smart idea. <laugh> what about fiber?
Where's omega three coming from, yeah. There's no fiber is fiber essential.
Well, it's being questioned. I mean,
is it as central to health in the medical literature?
Dr. Dennis burkeett from England went to africadescribe fiber described it
reduced all kinds of, uh, chronic diseases.
You wrote a book called the fiberman and all it's being questioned.
Now it's so entrenched. Have we got it all wrong?
And only plants have fiber is a good question where they get in their fiber.
Their meat is sticking in their colon.
It's called pre faction for days and days. That's is it? Yeah. Well, it's,
that is what happens. High meat died. There's a process, but is it a hundred.
Percent with every single person when you chew it well and drink water?
Does it always get stuck? Well.
It's generally thought that it's fiber.
That is the process of moving abdominal contents, whether you eat, uh, uh,
an all plant diet or.
Mixture. No, I mean, I, I think there's,
there's definitely controversy about fiber,
but I think the weight of the evidence, the,
it still does suggest that fermentable carbohydrates, fiber essentially,
and likeer acid are beneficial because be they are very important for the
microbiome. And we have, you know, people like Justin Sonberg at Stanford,
who's done a lot of good work here. Um,
do we know with a hundred percent certainty know,
but we also know that virtually every human population that's ever have been
studied had significant amounts of fiber in their diet. So,
so if we're going the messai right. No, they, they,
they did so that the very high, when the warriors,
they consumed the warriors consumed milk and meat and blood at certain times of
year when they were, you know, and, and other times you,
they did eat more plant foods. So yeah.
The wise, the Wises were lots of plants, even.
Even the, even the Inuit, the traditional Innuit, you know,
they had D during time, certain times of year, like the winter, when the,
the ground was covered with snow, they had a very low intake of plant foods,
but they would still trade for them. And then during the win, uh, summer, when,
when they were able to collect berries and things like at that,
they would definitely do that.
So every culture that we know of that's been studied,
ate some combination of animal and plant foods. You know, what ratio,
what amount, you know, that varies from place to place,
depending on where they are. Um, but that's, that's what the AR uh,
anthropological data.
Show. Yeah. There's actually, you know, when you talk about this two super,
super cool piece of data, I'll go quick.
There's a professor university of Pittsburgh, Stephen okieff,
who took 20 African Americans in Pittsburgh, eating an inner city,
not healthy diet and 20 rural Africans in South Africa,
eating from the Bush in the largely plants.
And they switched them for 20 days and they measured every single thing they can
measure in the microbiome, in their stool, metabolites, TMAO, and all the rest.
Your body is so amazing that 20 days on a better diet, well,
what I would call the rural African diet, a better diet, you know,
there was in incredible changes towards health making buterric acid,
having bacterioid is in prevatella, I mean, changes and the,
the rural African suffered American illness in terms of what you can measure
within two weeks. Now, there's data.
I just learned yesterday in Los Angeles that our microbiome changes in five
days, you go to a low sugar, low protein plant diet.
This is univers of Southern California. I can tell you, in five days,
maialapeterson's microbiome would change. Would you feel better? I don't know.
I'm just pointing out just the remarkable resiliency in the.